I. OVERVIEW
1. INTRODUCTION
   1.1 ADVANCED ClV1LlZA.TION is a game of skill for two to eight
   players which covers the development of ancient civilizations from the
   invention of agriculture to the emergence of Rome as the dominant
   Mediterranean power - a span of almost 8,000 years. Each player leads
   a nation of peoples over a mapboard of the Mediterranean and Ncar East
   as they attempt to carve a niche for themselves and their culture.
   1.2 Although battles and territorial strategy are important, ADVANCED
   CIVlLlZA170N is not a war game because it is not won by battle or

conquest. Instead, the object of play is to gain a level of overaJl advance-
ment involving cultural, economic, political and religious factors.

Conflicts which do arise result from rivalries and shortages of land rather
than attempts to eliminate other players. Nomads, farmers, warriors,
merchants, artisans, priests and citizens all have an essential part to play
in the development of each nation's civilization. The player who most
effectively balances these various outlooks will achieve the best balance
and win the game.
1.3 A game of ADVANCED ClVlLlZA 110N can take up to ten or twelve
hours to complete. When this much time is not available, players should
play to a fixed time limit (see 34.1B, below).
2. DESCRIPTION OF PLAY
   2.1 The Object of ADVANCED CNILlZA110N is to acquire the greatest
   number of victory points (35). The winner will not necessarily be the
   first player to reach the end of the Archaeological Succession Track
   (A.S.T.) or the player with the greatest number of civilization card
   points, although these are important factors in determining the winner.
   Civilization cards are acquired by a step-by-step process that mirrors the
   actual development of civilizations.
   2.2 Occupancy of areas on the board are indicated by tokens, which
   represent groups of peoples, and cities. At the start of the game, each
   nation begins with a single token in one of its start areas. Each turn,
   each player increases his population by adding onc token to each area
   containing a single token and two tokens to each area containing two or
   more tokens.
   2.3 Each player may then move his tokens to new areas by land or by
   boarding ships and moving by sea into other land areas. Players
   generally move their tokens into areas of the board which are fertile and
   defensible. This movement represents the travels of nomadic tribes and
   their search for a suitable homeland.
   2.4 After movement, conflict is resolved in land areas which contain
   surplus population. As the popUlation of the board reaches its limit,
   conflict becomes more common as border wars help to establish the
   boundaries of each nation. The scope of expansion is often limited by the
   loss of tokens in contested areas.
   2.S After conflict is resolved, cities may be constructed in areas which
   contain enough tokens. City construction is a more productive way of
   absorbing population pressures than is territorial expansion, for while
   cities require an agricultural hinterland, they are better able to resist
   attack and generate revenue through taxes which may be used to establish
   a central fund for the benefit of the whole state. The payment of taxes
   is represented by the transfer of tokens from stock into treasury. Players
   must strive to maintain a balance between rural and urban populations.
   2.6 Each turn, players collect one trade card for each city they have on
   the board. Most trade cards are commodities, but some are calamities

which may affect one or more players. Trade cards, includmg -=-- calamities, are then exchanged between players during the
session, allowing players to build up sets of commodity cards. 0D;::e
calamities are resolved J these commodity card sets and tokens in tra:slIIt""'!"
may be exchanged for civilization cards.
2.7 Cities are thus essential to provide the wealth needed to !Uh~ .t
civilization, but a nation which fails to augment this wealth by trade
be surpassed by others with a more energetic outlook. However. L~
is not without its hazards in the form of calamities which can haTe .I.
disastrous effect on people who have failed to evolve a balanced cu.Jt:::roe
Such calamities may also indirectly provide the impetus from v.1lica
well-organized society can (ise in new ways and achieve still furtha
greatness. Even so, the best calamities are those which happen to other
nations.
2 .8 Wealth from trade can be utilized to advance various aspects of ..
nation's civilization, which in turn aids its further progress. Civilizatioa.
cards confer special abilities and immunitics upon their holders, and also
provide players with the bulk of the points they need to progress alOft,
the Archaeological Succession Track and win. The speed and efficieDC!
with which a nation is able to devclop these various aspects of civilizario:::l.
will determine its chances for success and victory in the game. Strategic
planning is essential, as ccrtain civilization cards are expensive and 10
purchase them a player will normally accumulate credits from a series of
less expensive cards. For example, the cost of Democracy (200) can be

reduced by 45 points with the possession ofOrama and Poetry, Architoct-
ure, and Literacy.

II. GAME COMPONENTS
3. COMPONENTS
   3.1 The game consists of the following components:
   A. A mapboard made up of four panels. The Italian start areas are OD

the western-most panel, and the Babylonian start areas are on the eastern-
most panel. The Western Expansion Map panel may also be used, bet

is not essential to play of the game.
n. Nine sets of playing pieces.
C. Set of 24 civilization cards (eight of each type).
D. Deck of 114 commodity cards (plus spare blank cards). Sevetk")'
commodity cards are included in ADVANCED CNILlZAT10N.
E. Deck of 12 calamity cards. Eight calamity cards are included •
ADVANCED ClVlLlZATTON.
F. Archaeological Succession Card (consisting of the Archaeologica.
Succession Track, the Census Track and the Trade Card Stacks).
G. Eight Player Mats.
H. Place Cards.
I. Rulebook and Gamer's Guide.
J. Summary of Calamity Effects.
K. Civilization Card Credit Table, printed on the back of the rulebook.
3.2 ADVANCED CIVILIZATION is played using the original maJT
board, player mats, place cards, and some of the trade cards, from the

original CIVILIZATION game, as well as the new civilization, com-
modity and calamity cards, and rules contained in this ADVANCED

CIVILIZATION expansion kit Players may wish to photocopy the new
sequence of play (page 7) to add to their player mats.
3.3 ADVANCED CJVlL1ZA'flON docs not use dice.

4. THE MAPBOARD
   4.1 The maphoard consists of four panels which form a stylized map of
   the ancient civilized world from Italy to the Persian Gulf. A fifth panel,
   the Western Extension Maphoard, may also be used, although it is not
   essential to play of ADVANCED CIVILIZATION. The map has been
   divided into areas for purposes of population and movement. These areas
   contain significant features central to the play of the game.
   4.2 Areas:
   4.21 Land areas consist of any area bounded by white lines which
   contains various green or brown-colored territory. Several islands within
   one area are considered to constitute one island for rule purposes.
   4.22 Water areas consist of any area containing blue. Areas which
   contain both green or brown territory and bl ue are considered to be both
   land and water areas.
   4.23 Open sea areas are water areas which contain only blue territory.

4.24 Coastal areas are areas which contain both land and ocean (non-
lake) water.

4.3 Boundaries:
4.31 Land boundaries are indicated by a white line dividing two land
areas.
4.32 Water boundaries are indicated by a white line dividing two water
areas, including lakes.
4.33 A boundary which crosses both land and water is considered to be
both a land and water boundary. Where rules refer only to land or water
boundaries, the terms all-land and all-water boundaries are used.
4.4 Geographical features:
4.41 Volcanoes are represented by white triangles. One of the
volcanoes, in the Aegean, occupies one area. The other two volcanoes,
in Sicily and Italy, straddle two areas.
4.42 Flood plains are represented by dark green coloring. Any area that
contains such dark green coloring is considered to be on a flood plain.
4.43 City Sites are represented by small squares. Most city sites are
black. White city sites are on flood plains and are vulnerable to floods.
4.5 Population limits of land areas are indicated by a number enclosed
in a colored circle. These numbers indicate the maximum number of
tokens that the area can accommodate. To ease identification, each value
has its own color.
4.6 Start areas for each nation are indicated by a colored border. At
the start of the game, players may only place their initial token in a start
area with a border of the same color as their token. Crete's start areas
are indicated by a yellow-green border around the island of Crete.
4.61 If the Western Extension Mapboard is used, the start areas on the
western edge of the original mapboard are disregarded. The start areas
for Africa and Italy are altered accordingly.
4.7 The map divider, represented by a dotted line in the middle panel
of the mapboard, is used to divide the mapboard into smaller playing
areas for games with less than six players.
4.8 All other map features are included for aesthetic purposes o~ly and
have no impact on play.
W
_

B [a5J Succession
~ ~ ~ jASSYRIAj
Token City Ship 7
Census

5. PLAYING PIECES
   5.1 There are nine sets of playing pieces, each of which bears a
   distinctive national color. Each set contains 55 large square tokens, nine

5
round cities, four rectangular ships, one small square census marker
bearing a number and one small square succession marker.
5.2 Tokens are square, and are used to represent rural populations.
When the term tokcn is used, this does not include ships or cities.
5.3 Cities are round, and are used to represent urban populations.
5.4 Ships are rectangular, and are used only to move tokens across
water areas.
5.5 Units is a term used to refer to tokens and cities, but not ships.
5.6 Unit points is a term used to refer to the value of tokens and cities,
usually in the context of resolving calamities. Each city has a value of
five unit points and each token has a value of one unit point.
ARCHITECTURE

Allows treasury
to pay baH of the cost
of city construction.
A 120

ARCHITECTURE ...
Arts: 120
Cffldits: 5to all Am;, 10 to
Democracy and Enlightenment,
15toLaw.
CfflditlCost Ratio: 60/120 •. 5
Attributes: Up to hall 01 the
cost 01 building one city per
turn in an unopposed area
may be paid by tokens lrom
the treasury.
Calamity Effects: None.

6. CIVILIZATION CARDS
   6.1 Civilization cards represent 24 important aspects of civilization.
   There are five groups of civilization cards, each identified by its own
   color and symbolic shape. Four cards belong to two groups. The groups

are: Arts (blue - triangle), Crafts (orange - square), Sciences (green-
circle), Civics (red - hexagon), and Religion (yellow - star).

6,2 Mere the anributes of civilization cards create exceptions ro a
general ruIe, these exceptions are set OuI in italics. The anributes oflhe
various civilization cards are summarized on their reverse side.

7. TRADE CARDS

VOLCANIC
ERUPTION OR
EARTHQUAKE

7.1 There are two types of trade cards - commodity cards and calamity

cards. The term trade card is used in the rules to refer to both commod-
ity and calamity cards. Rules which refer specifically to commodity or

calamity cards apply only to that typc of card.
rr:i9Ji36ill,~,i'~44il
&~ 9 (, Iv l 8. COMMODITY CARDS
8.1 There are 114 commodity cards. The following table sets out the
value and number of each commodity:

6
Value Commoditl Nwnber
1 Ochre 7
1 Hides 7
2 n- 8
2 Papyrus· 7
3 Salt 9
3 Timber· 8
4 Grain 8
4 Oil· 7
S Cloth 7
S Wine'" 6
6 Bronze 6
6 Silver'" S
7 Spices· 6
7 Resin· S
8 Gems· S
8 Dye- 4
9 Gold'" S
9 Ivory'" 4
• Use commodity caros provided with ADVANCED CIVIUZA.110N.
Non-Tradable

2
VOLCANIC
ERUPTION OR
EARTHQUAKE SUPERSmlON

9. CALAMITY CARDS
   9.1 There are 12 calamity cards. The following table sets out the trade
   card stack in which each calamity is placed and its trade status:
   Trade Stack Calamity Trade Status
   2 Volcano/Earthquake· Non-tradable
   2 Treachery'" Tradable
   3 Famine- Non-tradable
   3 Superstition· Tradable
   4 Civil War'* Non-tradable
   4 Slave Revolt'" Tradable
   S Flood'" Non-tradable
   S Barbarian Hordes· Tradable
   6 ~idemic Tradable
   7 Civil Disorder Tradable
   8 Iconoclasm and Heresy Tradable
   9 Piracy Tradable
   .. Usc calamity cards supplied with ADVANCED CIVIUZA110N.
10. ARCHAEOLOGICAL SUCCESSION CARD
    10.1 The Archaeological Succession Card is divided into three sections:
    the Archaeological Succession Table (A.S. T .), the Trade Card Stacks and
    the Census Track.
    10.2 The Archaeological Succession Table (A.S.T.) contains a
    horizontal track for each nation. Each player's succession marker moves
    along his nation's track from left to right. There are a total of sixteen
    spaces on each track, including the start arrow and the finish square.
    10.21 The A.S.T. is divided into five regions (called epochs) by shading:
    the Stone Age, Early Bronze Age, Late Bronze Age, Early Iron Age, and
    Late Iron Age. In the last epoch, each space contains a point value.
    Such spaces may not be entered unless the player in question has acquired
    the indicated number of points (33 .25). Not all nations enter the same
    epochs at the same time.
    10.3 Trade Card Stacks are used to hold the various trade cards during
    play . There are nine stacks, one for each level of trade card.
    10.4 The Census Track is used to hold each nation's census marker.
    After population expansion has occurred, players determine how many of

their tokens are on the board and their census markers are moved to the
appropriate number on the Census Track.
11. PLAYER MATS
    11.1 Player mats are used by players to hold all tokens, cities and shi.;:'s
    not currently in play on the board. These are referred to as stock and arc
    kept in the stock area of the Player Mat. When tokens. cities and ships
    are removed from the board they are placed in stock and may be returned
    to play at a later time. No playing piece is ever permanently remo"'cd
    from the game.
    11.2 When tokens are placed in the treasury area of the Player Mat thc!'
    become a currency which may be used to purchase civilization cards. t
    is important not to mix tokens in stock with tokens in treasury. as t.ber serve separate functions. To maintain this distinction, tokens placed ..
    treasury should be inverted. The sequence of play followed each tun!.
    does not correspond exactly to tha.t printed on the Player Mats - see IS
12. PLACE CARDS
    12.1 The place cards are used at the start of the game to

determine the order in which players select their nationS-
They have no other purpose and are put aside once the game.

hegins.
13. CALAMITY EFFECTS SUMMARY
    13.1 This sheet sets out the effects of each calamity. The Calami!)
    Effects Summary is printed separately for ease of reference.
14. CIVILIZATION CARD CREDIT AND
    GAME RECORD SHEET
    14.1 The Civilization Card Credit Table saves a great deal of time by
    allowing players to quickly calculate the credits they have accumulated
    towards the purchase of additional civilization cards.
    14.2 The Game Record Chart provides a convenient way for players to
    record their civilization card purchases and keep a running total of their
    civilization card points. Players must keep a running total of their
    civilization card values and reveal this total when asked by anotbct
    player. Players may wish to record the number of the turn in which tbe)
    acquired their civilization cards for future reference.
    14.3 These player aids are printed on the back of the rulebook. Players
    should photocopy the Civilization Card Credit Table and Game Record
    Chart and keep an adequate supply on hand.
    III. GETTING STARTED
15. SETTING UP THE GAME
    IS.1 Layout the mapboard and the Archaeological Succession Card. A:!
    players place a Player Mat in front of them.
    15.2 Sort out the civilization cards by type and put them to one side is
    an easily accessible location. Sort the commodity cards by number.
    shuffle each stack, then count out a number of commodity cards from
    each of the second to ninth stacks equivalent to the number of players..
    These are put to one side. Each of the eight tradable calamity cards is
    then shuffled in with the remaining commodity cards of the same
    numeric value (Le., Treachery is shuffled in with Iron and Papyrus.
    Superstition with Salt and Timber, and so on), and the commodity
    cards which were put to one side are now placed on top of their trade
    card stacks. This ensures that no player will draw a tradable calamity
    until play is well underway. The four non-tradable calamity cards are
    placed at the bottom of the stack of trade cards corresponding to their
    numeric value. The first stack does not get a calamity.
    15.3 The numbered place cards are shuffled and one is dealt to each
    player. One place card is used for each player to determine the order in
    which nations are selected by the players. In sequence, each player
    selects one of the nine nations to play, takes the set of playing pieces for
    that nation and places one token in anyone of his nation's start areas

(4.6). There is a choice of starting areas for every nation except Thrace,
which has only one start area.
15.31 Even with eight players, one nation will not be in play . Units
belonging to a nation which is not in play are used for the Barbarian
Hordes and Piracy calamities. Otherwise these extra units are not used
and are put aside.
15.4 Players place their succession markers on their nation's start arrow
on the A.S.T. and their census markers on the Census Track beside the
AS.T. Play may now begin.
15.5 Late arrivals:
15.51 Players who wish to join a game once it is in progress may do so
by selecting an unused nation and waiting for a Civil War.
15.52 Once a Civil War occurs, the new player will be the beneficiary,
as he will have the most units in stock (30.411). In addition to whatever
cities and tokens it acquires as a result of the Civil War, the new nation
also acquires, at no cost, the same civilization cards as are held by the
Civil War victim, and places his marker on the same AS. T. position as
the Civil War victim. The Civil War victim retains his civilization cards.
This assumption of the civilization cards and A.S.T. position by the
beneficiary of a Civil War only occurs when a new player is entering the
game.
15.6 Early departures:
15.61 If a player must leave a game while it is still in progress, his units
remain, inert, on the mapboard until eliminated by other players. The
inert nation does not move, its population does not increase, and its cities
do not require support. Such a nation may not be selected as a secondary
victim of calamities.
15.62 When a player leaves the game, his nation retains, at random, one
trade card for each city it has on the mapboard. Excess trade cards are
returned to the appropriate trade card stacks. When a city belonging to
the inert nation is eliminated, the attacking player draws one of the trade
cards retained by that nation and pillages the city (24.5).
15.63 An inert nation retains its civilization cards. Their attributes are
taken into account when resolv ing attacks against the inert nation's units.
16. THE NUMBER OF PLAYERS
    16.1 ADVANCED CIVILIZAT10N may be played by between two and
    eight players. Depending on the number of players, the playing area,
    number of tokens per player and certain rules are different, as set out
    below. Unless otherwise specified, all other rules remain in effect.
    16.11 When a game is played on only a portion of the mapboard,land
    areas which are only partially on the mapboard may be used if their
    population limit is printed on a panel which is in play. A playable land
    area which normally contains a city site is considered not to have a city
    site if the site is printed on a panel which is not in play.
    16.12 Nations whose start areas are on a panel which is not in play may
    not be selected. If the western-most panel is not in play, the start areas
    for Africa and Italy are changed accordingly.
    16.2 Eight players - All four pancls of the mapboard are used. If the
    Western Extension Mapboard is available, it is used as well. Each player
    uses 47 tokens. .
    16.3 Seven players - All four panels of the mapboard are used . If the
    Western Extension Mapboard is available, it is used as well. Each player
    uses 55 tokens.
    16.4 Six players - All four panels of the mapboard are used. If the
    Western Extension Mapboard is available, players may choose not to use
    the eastern-most panel of the mapboard. Each player uses 55 tokens.
    16.5 Five players - Three panels of the mapboard are used. Players
    may play without both the western-most and eastern-most panels, or, if
    the Western Extension Mapboard is available, the two most western
    panels or the two most eastern panels. Each player uses 47 tokens.
    16.6 Four players -. Only the three eastern panels of the mapboard are
    used, and the dotted map dividing line mades the western edge of the
    board. Open sea areas containing the dividing line may be used. Only
    four nations (Egypt, Babylon, Assyria and Asia) are available for play.
    If the Western Expansion Mapboard is available, the western portion of

7
the mapboard can be used, with five nations (Italy. Africa. Illyria, Thra.ce
and Crete) being available for play . In either case, each player uses 55
tokens.
16.7. Three players - Only the three middle panels of the mapboard are
used, and the dotted map dividing line marks the eastern edge of the
board . Open sea areas containing the dividing line may be used. Only
five nations (Italy, Africa, IIIyria, Thrace and Crete) are available for
play. Each player uses 47 tokens.
16.8 Two players - Only the three middle panels of the map board are
used, and the dotted map dividing line marks the eastern edge of the
board. Open sea areas containing the dividing line may be used. City
sites on islands are disregarded - 12 tokens are required to build a city on
an island. Only four nations (Italy, Africa, Illyria and Thrace) are
available for play. Each player uses 55 tokens.
IV. TURN BY TURN PROCEDURE
17. THE GAME TURN
    17.1 Each ADVANCED CIVILIZATION game turn is divided into a
    number of distinct activities, referred to as phases. During each phase,
    players perform the indicated activity simultaneously or, if necessary, in
    a prescribed order. When all phases have been completed, the turn is
    finished and a new turn begins.
    17.2 To speed play, in many phases all players may carry out the
    required activity simultaneously, as their actions will have no effect on
    other players. However. situations often arise in which the actions of
    other players are of crucial importance in determining a player's actions.
    Players may insist at any time that activities in a particular phase be
    carried out in the proper order.
    17.3 The order of player activity during various phases is determined
    according to various criteria, as detailed in the rules applying to each
    phase. These criteria are summarized in the sequence of play.
    17.4 A.S.T. order is used to resolve all ties between the nations except
    conflict. AS.T. order corresponds to the list of nations on the