19. TAXATION
    19.1 Every player must transfer two tokens from stock to treasury for
    every city he has on the board. This is the only way tokens are moved
    into treasury. other than pillage (24.52).
    19.2 Players who hold COinage may vary their taxation rate by
    increasing it 10 three tokens per city or decreasing it to one token per
    ciry. The same tax must be levied on each city in a given round. A
    taxation rale may be set which causes Ihe revolt of some cities.
    19.3 Revolts
    19.31 Revolts occur when a player does not have sufficienttokens in his
    stock to pay the required taxes. Once the shortfall is determined, the
    excess cities revolt. Revolts are resolved only after all other players have
    paid their taxes.
    19.32 The player with the most units in stock (cities count for five each,
    tokens count for one each) is the beneficiary of the revolt and chooses
    which cities revolt and replaces them with his own cities. He may take
    over only that number of cities for which the original owners Me unable
    to pay their taxes. If the beneficiary does not have enough cities in stock
    to take over all cities in revolt, the player with the next largest number
    of units in stock takes over the remainder and so on, until all cities in
    revolt have been replaced. The unpaid taxes are not paid by the new
    owners.
    19.33 In the rare case where no player can take over remaining revolting
    cities, they are eliminated instead.
    19.34 Cities belonging to players who hold Democracy never revolt.