23. MOVEMENT
    23.1 Once ship building is completed, players may move some, all, or
    none of their tokens and ships. Cities may not be moved. A player may
    not move another player's units.
    23.2 Players move in census order, the player with the greatest number
    of tokens moving first.
    23.21 Players who hold Milirary always move after players who do not
    hold Mililary. The order of movement as between those players who hoM
    Military is delermined nonnally. according 10 census order.
    23.22 Barbarians, which periodically appear on the board as a calamity,
    move only during the calamity phase in which they appear.
    23.3 Tokens may be moved either across one land boundary into an
    adjacent land area or onto a ship currently occupying the same ar~
    Tokens may not move across both land and water in the same turn.
    23.31 Players who hold Roadbuilding may move their TOkens Ihrough OM
    land area into a second land area in Ihe same movement phase. The firIl
    area entered may not conlain unilS belonging 10 anolher player
    Barbarians or a Pirale city. Roadbuilding may nor be used ro mo\ ~
    TOkens lhrough a land area lhen on board a ship.
    23.4 Any number of tokens, belonging to any number of players, m.sy
    be moved into the same area. Tokens may be moved into an area
    containing a city. Tokens may be moved into an area in excess of the
    area's popUlation limit, although this may result in the later eliminatioii:
    of excess tokens.
    23.S Movement of ships
    23.51 A ship may carry as many as five tokens at one time. OnJy
    tokens which have not been moved overland in the current movemen.t
    phase may embark onto and move with a ship.
    23.52 Ships may only move across water boundaries. A ship may move
    into up to four water areas in the same movement phase. Players may
    not move their ships into open sea areas (4.23) unless they hold
    Astronomy. Ships may travel in any water area, including lakes, but mil)
    not cross all-land boundaries.
    23.53 Players who hold Clolh Making may move their ships into OM
    extra area during each movement phase.
    23.54 Players who hold Astronomy may move their ships inlo open sea
    areas.
    23.55 Ships may end their movement in any water area they can reach.
    other than an open sea area, regardless of whose ships or tokens also
    occupy the area.

23.56 A ship may take part in any number of embarkations and
debarkations of tokens during the same movement phase, and may retrace
all or part of its route subject only to the limitation on the number of
areas entered. A ship may thus ferry two loads of tokens across a narrow
strait or lake, or pick up and set down tokens at different areas along its
voyage. Tokens must be embarked and debarked during the same
movement phase. A token may not remain aboard a ship at the end of
a movement phase. A token may not travel on more than one ship in the
same movement phase.
23.57 In Greece, some areas have two distinct coastlines. Ships may
enter such areas from either side, but must leave from the same side.
Ships may not cross directly from one coastline to another.