24. CONFLICT
    24.1 Conflict occurs when the tokens of two or more nations occupy the
    same area and the total number of tokens in the area is greater than the
    population limit of the area. An area which contains a city is considered
    to be fully populated. If the population limit of an area containing tokens
    belonging to two or more different nations is not exceeded, the tokens
    will co-exist without conflict.
    24.11 Conflicts may occur between tokens, between tokens and cities,
    and between tokens and cities defended by tokens. A11 conflicts occur in
    land areas. Ships are nevcr involved in conflicts, even if they have
    transported tokens to banle. Ships cannot be captured or eliminated by
    conflict.
    24.12 Tokens and cities eliminated as a result of conflict are returned to
    stock.
    24.2 Conflict Between Tokens
    24.21 Players remove one token at a time alternately until only one
    player's tokens remain in the area or the population level is no longer
    exceeded. A conflict may thus end in co-existence. The player with the
    fewest number of tokens removes first.
    24.22 If both players have an equal number of tokens in the area, they
    remove their tokens simultaneously. As a result, an even number of
    tokens will be present at all stages so that an area wh ich can support only
    one token will end up depopulated.
    24.23 If more than two players are involved in a conflict, tokens are
    removed in ascending order of strength . Two or more players may still
    be required to remove tokens simultaneously.
    24.24 Players who hold Metalworking remove their tokens after players
    who do not hold Metalworking, regardless of the number of their tokens
    as compared to other players. Conflict belWeen players who both hold
    Metalworking is resol¥ed nonnally.
    24.3 Conflicts Between Tokens and Cities
    24.31 Cities remain standing unless attacked by seven or more tokens
    belonging to the same nation. If fewer than seven tokens attack a city,
    they are simply removed without affecting the attacked cily.
    24.32 If a city is attacked by the required number of tokens, the
    defender replaces the city with six tokens and the rcsulting conflict
    between the attacking and defending tokens is resolved. If the defending
    player has fewer than six tokens in stock he replaces the attacked city
    with what tokens he has and combat is resolved normally . Players are
    entitled to resolve any other conflicts involving their tokens before
    resolving attacks on their cities, so their cities may be replaced by rhe
    maximum number of tokens allowed.
    24.33 Two or more players may not combine to attack a city . If two
    players have tokens in an area containing a city belonging to a third
    player, they battle among themselves until only one player's tokens
    remain. If sufficient tokens survive, the survivor may then attack the
    city,
    24.34 When a Pirate city is attacked by a player. the Pirate city is
    replaced by unused tokens solely for the purpose of resolving combat.
    If any such tokens survive the resulting combat, they are removed from
    the board .
    24.35 Players who hold Engineering require only six tokens to allack a
    ciry. The defending ciry is replaced by five tokens, Eight tokens are
    required to auack a dry belonging to a player who holds Engineering.

9
The ciry is replaced by seven tokens. 1J both the allacker and defender
hold Engineering, Ihe effects oj Engineering cancel.
24.4 Conflicts Between Tokens and Cities Defended By Tokens
24.41 Conflict between tokens is resolved before attacks on cities.'
Tokens defending a city must be eliminated before the city is attacked.
The city may only be attacked if a sufficient number of attacking tokens
survive the initial conflict between tokens.
24.5 Consequences of City Elimination
24.51 Drawing a trade card: When a city is attacked and eliminated by
a player, the attacking player immediately draws, at random, one of the
victim's trade cards and retains it for his own usc. If the victim has no
trade cards, no such draw occurs.
24.52 Pillage: In addition to drawing a trade card from the victim, a
player who successfully attacks a city may transfer up to three tokens
from his stock to his treasury, to reflect pillage of the destroyed city.
The attacker may choose to transfer fewer tban three tokens if he wishes.
The number of tokens which may be pillaged may not exceed the number
of tokens in the attacker's stock. and can never exceed three tokens per
city. The victim's treasury and stock are unaffected by pillage.
24.S3 No trade card is drawn nor docs pillage occur when a city is
converted by Monotheism, captured by Pirates, eliminated by Barbarians
or lost as a result of any other calamity or a tax revolt. A trade card is
drawn and pillage occurs only when one player eliminates another
player's city by direct attack. A player who attacks and eliminates .. a
Pirate city may pillage it.