26. REMOVAL OF SURPLUS POPULATION
    26.1 After city construction is completed, all surplus population is
    removed to stock. Areas with cities may not also contain tokens, and
    areas withQut cities may not contain more tokens than allowed by their
    population limits.
    26.11 The population limit in areas containing only tokens belonging to
    a player who holds Agriculture is increased by one. This effect is limited
    TO areas which do not contain olher tokens. Agricuilure has no effecr in
    areas where lOkens are co-existing or during conflict.
    26.2 Ships do not count towards population limits. Any number of ships
    may exist in the same area. For example, if three ships and three tokens
    arc in an area with a population limit of two, one token must be removed
    to stock but the ships may remain without pcnalty.
    26.3 Checking for city support
    26.31 After all surplus population has been removed, each player checks
    for city support. Each player must have two tokens on the board for
    every city in play. These tokens represent the agricultural support needed
    to maintain the urban populations. Players who do not have enough
    tokens on the board to support their cities must reduce their cities, one at
    a time, until there are enough tokens to support the remaining cities.
    26.32 Players who must reduce unsupported cities may select which
    cities are to be reduced first, subject only to the requirement that newly
    constructed cities must be reduced before cities which were built or
    acquired in a previous turn.

10
26.4 City reduction
26.41 Cities are reduced by removing them from play and replacing
them with the maximum number of tokens allowed by the area's
population limit. These added token(s) can immediately be used as
support for other cities vulnerable to reduction. If, when attempting to
reduce a city. players find that they do not have enough tokens in stock
to meet the population limit, they replace their city with the tokens they
have in stock. If other cities are still unsupported, they are eliminated.
26.S City support is checked only at two critical points in each turn -
after the removal of surplus population and after the resolution of
calamities. These two points are indicated in the Sequence of Play . City
support is not checked at any other time, other than when resolving Slave
Revolt (30.42).
26.6 When city reduction is required as a result of calamities, the
procedure set out above is followed.