27. ACQUISITION OF TRADE CARDS
    27.1 Players draw one trade card from as many trade card stacks as they
    have cities on the board. The player with the fewest number of cities on
    the board draws his trade cards first, followed by the player with the next
    fewest number of cities, und so on, until all players have drawn their
    trade cards.
    27.2 Trade cards are always collected by the same mcthod. One card
    is drawn from each stack, progressing from the first stack, until the
    playcr has drawn from the same number of stacks as he has cities on the
    board. A player with three cities in play thus draws one trade card from
    each of the first three stacks, and cannot draw a trade card from the
    fourth or any higher trade card stack until he has more than three cities
    in play.
    27.21 If a stack is empty, a player is not entitled to replace the lost card
    with one from another stack. The player must simply forego drawing a
    trade card from that particular stack.
    27.3 Players may not disclose what trade cards they have drawn as
    they may have acquired a calamity card which they may be able to
    trade to another player. Calamity cards which may not be traded (Vol·
    canolEarthquake, Famine, Civil War and Flood) must be retained by
    the playcr who drew them until all trading is complete.
    27.4 Trade cards must be held in secret. While in a player's hands,
    trade cards are the only one of his items which are not open to inspection
    by other players.
    27.S Buying Gold, Ivory or Piracy
    27.51 A player, regardless of the number of cities he has on thc board,
    may buy one or more trade cards from the ninth (Gold/Ivory) stack at a
    cost of 18 tokens from treasury per card. The spent tokens are returned
    to stock. Trade cards are purchased from the ninth stack immediately
    after the purchasing player collects his trade cards, before any othcr
    players collect their trade cards.