28. TRADE
28.1 Players trade to build up sets of the same commodities, as sets are
more valuable than individual commodity cards. Trade is open to all
players. Offers may be suspended, altered or withdrawn in open
negotiation between players, but once trade cards have changed hands,
a deal is complete and cannot be revoked.
28.2 Trade is carried on by a system of barter involving only trade
cards. Trade deals may not include treasury or civilization cards. Any
one trade deal may involve only two players.
28.3 Each trade must involve at least three trade cards on each side. A
player with fewer than three trade cards may not trade. When negotiating
a trade, each player must honestly inform the other of the number of
trade cards he wishes to trade and at least two of the trade cards involved
in the trade. This information must be correct· the remaining card or
cards need not be specified and may consist of any commodity or tradable
caJamity card(s), regardless of what was said to the other player. A

playcr may not show his trade cards to another player during negotia-
tions, nor maya player inform other players of the details of a trade after

it is completed.

EXAMPLE: A player, wishing to acquire grain, annOUDCea "I want gmin · I'U trade
for grain. " He agrees with a pr05pective trading partner that be will trade three canh
including two salt, for. grain. an iron and two Wlknown canh. Thil guarantees that the:
other player will receive two salt carda. An assurance that the third card is alao • lid:
doea not guarantee that the third card traded will Dot be a different commodil}', or
possibly a tnldable calamiI}' card. Similarly. our player can only be sure that he 'NJ.U
receive one grain. one iron and two other cards. He has no way of knowing what tb:
other cards will be Wltil he receives them, although mcaningleaa ll85urancC8 can be givea
by his trading partner.
28.4 Limiting Ibe trading phase
28.41 Trading is permitted to continue until all players have completed
all the deals they wish to make. It is strongly recommended, though, the!
a time limit of not more than five minutes be imposed upon the tradinf
phase.
28.S Commodity Card Sets
28.51 When a player holds more than one commodity card of the same
type, the value of the combination is increased according to the following
formula: square the number of cards held, then multiply the result by the
value of the commodity. For example, three grain cards (each worth
four) have a vaJue of 3 x 3 x 4 = 36, rather than 4 + 4 + 4 = 12.
28.52 The values of the cards when collected in sets is printed on each
commodity card. Different commodities, even of the same valuc, rna)
not be combined in sets.
28.53 Mining increases the value of Iron, Bronze, Silver, Gems or Gold
by one card. This effect only applies once each lum. For example, if a
player holding Mining uses Ihree Bronze cards 10 purchase a civilizarion
card, he could use Mining 10 increase the value oj Ihe ser from 54 to 96
(lhe value of jour Bronze cards), bUl could nOl also use Mining 10
increase the value oj a set oj Gems cards in the same tum. Mining may
not be used 10 increase the value oj a set of commodity cards beyond Ihe
limit prinled on lhe commodiry card itself.