33. MOVEMENT OF MARKERS ON THE A.S.T.
    33.1 At the end of each turn, each player's marker is moved one space
    to the right along the A.S.T. In some situations, a marker may not move
    forward or may even be moved backward one space.
    33.11 A player's marker may not enter a new epoch unless the epoch
    entry requirements are met.
    33.2 Epoch Entry Requirements:
    33.21 Stone Age - none.
    33.22 Early Bronze Age - two cities in play.
    33.23 Late Bronze Age - three cities in play and ownership of at least
    three groups of civilization cards (Le., three of the five colors must be
    present). Remember that some cards belong to and count as two groups.
    33.24 Early Iron Age - four cities in play and ownership of at least nine
    civilization cards, including civilization cards from all five groups (i.e.,
    all five colors must be present).
    33.25 Late Iron Age - five cities in play. Each space in the Late Iron
    Age contains a point value. To enter such a space, the value of a
    player's civilization cards must at least equal the value printed in the
    space. Commodity cards and treasury arc not counted.
    33.3 If a player has fewer cities in play than the number required to
    enter an epoch, his marker is frozen on the A.S.T. and may not advance
    further in that epoch until he has again constructed the required number
    of cities. This determination is made at the time markers are moved
    along the A.S.T.
    33.4 If a player ends a round with no cities in play, his marker moves
    backwards on the A.S.T. at the rate of one space per turn, unless that
    player is in the Stone Age, which has no city requirement.